:memo: updated quickstart page (#2)
writechoiceorg/terrateam: docs/src/content/docs/quickstart-guide.mdx

---
title: Quickstart Guide
description: Get up and running with Terrateam in minutes.
---
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Icon } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { LinkCard, CardGrid, Card } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Could you add a short intro before Prerequisites stating what the guide covers?

> Before getting started with Terrateam, make sure you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before getting started with Terrateam, make sure you have the following:
```

- **A GitHub repository** with Terraform code
- **GitHub Actions** enabled in your repository
- **Administrator access** to install the Terrateam GitHub app
- **Cloud provider credentials** *(Required for production deployments, but optional for this guide.)*

## Demo Repository

Want to follow along with a working example? You can fork our [Terrateam example repository](https://github.com/terrateamio/terrateam-example) to practice with pre-configured Terraform code.

<LinkCard
  title="Terrateam Example Repository"
  href="https://github.com/terrateamio/terrateam-example"
  icon="github"
/>

## Setting Up Terrateam

Terrateam bridges GitHub's pull request workflow with Terraform operations, automating the plan/apply process while maintaining safety controls.

<Steps>
1. **Install the Terrateam GitHub Application**

   Sign up for a Terrateam account and install the GitHub app in your organization.
   

>    - $149/mo unlimited with 14-day free trial (no credit card required)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - $149/mo unlimited with a 14-day free trial (no credit card required)
```

   - Select the GitHub organizations and repositories containing your Terraform code.
   
   <LinkCard
     title="Sign up for Terrateam"
     href="https://terrateam.io/signup"
   />
   
   ![GitHub application installation](../../assets/install-terrateam-github.png)

2. **Add the Terrateam GitHub Actions Workflow**

   The workflow file enables Terrateam to run Terraform operations within your GitHub Actions environment.
   
   - Create a `.github/workflows` directory in your repository if it doesn't exist.
   - Download and add the [terrateam.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/terrateamio/terrateam-example/main/.github/actions/workflows/default/terrateam.yml) file to this directory.
   - Commit the file to your default branch (`main` or `master`).
   
   ![GitHub Actions Workflow File](../../assets/github-actions-workflow-file-location.png)
   
   :::note
   This workflow file is essential as it allows Terrateam to execute Terraform commands in response to pull request events.
   :::

3. **Configure Cloud Provider Authentication (Optional for this guide)**

>    For real infrastructure deployments, you'll need to set up authentication with your cloud provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You'll need to set up authentication with your cloud provider for real infrastructure deployments.
```

   
   <LinkCard
     title="Cloud Provider Setup"
     href="/cloud-providers"
     description="Configure AWS, GCP, Azure or other providers"
   />
</Steps>

## Your First Terrateam Deployment

Let's test Terrateam with a simple example that doesn't require cloud provider credentials.

> :::tip[What is a `null_resource`?]

Reviewer: The null_resource concept may still be unclear for those brand new to Terraform.

---
title: Quickstart Guide
description: Get up and running with Terrateam in minutes.
---
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Icon } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { LinkCard, CardGrid, Card } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> Welcome to the Terrateam Quickstart guide! This guide will help you set up Terrateam, integrate it with GitHub, and run your first Terraform deployment—all in a few simple steps. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps on this page will help you to set up Terrateam, integrate it with GitHub, and run your first Terraform deployment in just a few steps.
```

Reviewer 2: - Don't use this type of message in a documentation "Welcome ..."
- Avoid start the introduction with "this guide ..."
- Prefer coma "," instead of "-"
- Don't use "simple" to say that something is going to be easy. It may frustrate users that face problems.

## Prerequisites

> Before getting started with Terrateam, make sure you have the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before getting started with Terrateam quickstart guide, make sure you have the following:
```

> - **A GitHub account** to fork our demo repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **A GitHub account** to fork Terrateam [demo repository](https://github.com/terrateam-demo/kick-the-tires).
```

Reviewer 2: Avoid using our. Use Terrateam instead.
If the list is composed of sentences, add a endpoint.

> - **GitHub Actions** enabled in your forked repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **GitHub Actions** enabled in your forked repository.
```

> - **Administrator access** to install the Terrateam GitHub app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Administrator access** to install the Terrateam GitHub app.
```

## Demo Repository Workflow

> The easiest way to get started is using our ready-to-use demo repository with pre-configured Terraform code. Follow these steps to quickly test Terrateam's capabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To have an overview on how to use Terrateam, use the the Terrateam ready-to-use demo repository with pre-configured Terraform code. Follow these steps to quickly test Terrateam's capabilities.
```

Author: done

<LinkCard
  title="Terrateam Demo Repository"
  href="https://github.com/terrateam-demo/kick-the-tires"

>   icon="github"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: It does not support icons.

Author: fixed

/>

<Steps>
1. **Fork the Demo Repository**

>    Click the link above to access our demo repository, then click the "Fork" button in the top-right corner of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Click the link above to access our demo repository, then click the **Fork** button in the top-right corner of the page.
```

Reviewer 2: When you are referring to something that is available on the screen, use bold instead of "".

@lucaspr2 , please, check the other pages and fix all related occurrences.

Author: done, ok

   
   ![Fork button on GitHub repository](../../assets/demo-fork.png)
   
   On the "Create a new fork" screen, keep the default settings and click "Create fork".
   
   ![Create a new fork](../../assets/demo-create-fork.png)
   
   :::note
   Make sure you've already signed up for Terrateam and installed the GitHub application before continuing.
   <LinkCard
     title="Install Terrateam GitHub App"
     href="https://github.com/apps/terrateam-action"
   />

>    :::

Reviewer 2: @lucaspr2  why do we need this Note?
If the next step is covering the content from this note, we don't need to add it.
If the following step is not covering it, we should transform the note into a new step.

Author: fixed

2. **Install the Terrateam GitHub Application (if you haven't already)**

   Sign up for a Terrateam account and install the GitHub app in your organization.
   

>    - $149/mo unlimited with a 14-day free trial (no credit card required)

Reviewer 2: Add this as a note. The note does not need a title.

Author: done

>    - Select the GitHub organizations and repositories containing your Terraform code.

Reviewer 2: This should not be a bullet point since it is a continuation of the process.

Reviewer 2: Update the description. The user must select only the forked repository.

   
   <LinkCard
     title="Sign up for Terrateam"
     href="https://terrateam.io/signup"
   />

>    ![Install Terrateam](../../assets/demo-install-terrateam-2.png)

Reviewer 2: The image shows that you have installed it in all repositories. However, the goal is to install it only in the forked repository. Please update the image @lucaspr2 .

>    After installation, go to [your Terrateam dashboard](https://app.terrateam.io/). Your forked repository should appear there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the installation is complete, access your [Terrateam dashboard](https://app.terrateam.io/). If the setup was successful, your forked repository will be listed there.
```

>    ![Terrateam dashboard](../../assets/demo-terrateam-dashboard.png)

Reviewer 2: we need to improve and standardize the image sizes

3. **Clone Your Forked Repository**

   Clone the repository to your local machine and navigate to its directory:
   
   ```bash

>    git clone https://github.com/your-username/kick-the-tires.git

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/kick-the-tires.git
```

Author: done

   cd kick-the-tires
   ```

>    :::note

Reviewer 2: Remove this note.

Author: done

Author: done

   replace `your-username` with your GitHub username.
   :::
   
4. **Create a New Branch**

   Create a branch to make your changes:
   
   ```bash
   git checkout -b test-branch
   ```
   
5. **Modify a Terraform File**

>    Let's modify a file to test the workflow. Open `staging/compute/main.tf` and change the instance name.

Reviewer 2: Add a explanation why you are changing the file. Example (need improvement):

> Modify a Terraform file to test the Terrateam workflow. Open the `staging/compute/main.tf` file and change the instance name, as shown in the following code snippet. The `instance_name` has been changed from `"staging-instance"` to `"staging-instance-modified"`."**

Author: done

>    For example, find a line like:

Reviewer 2: remove

Author: done

>    ```hcl {5}

Reviewer 2: remove code block

Author: done

   module "staging_compute_instance" {
   source = "../../modules/compute"

   instance_count = 0
   instance_name  = "staging-instance"
   instance_zone  = "us-central1-a"
   boot_disk_image = "debian-cloud/debian-11"
   network_name    = "default"
   }
   ```
   

>    Change the `instance_name` to something like:

Reviewer 2: remove.
When presenting a tutorial or guide, always specify exactly what the user must execute. Being explicit is better than being implicit.

   
   ```hcl {5}
   module "staging_compute_instance" {
   source = "../../modules/compute"

   instance_count = 0
   instance_name  = "staging-instance-modified"
   instance_zone  = "us-central1-a"
   boot_disk_image = "debian-cloud/debian-11"
   network_name    = "default"
   }
   ```
   
6. **Commit and Push Your Changes**

   Commit your changes and push them to your branch:
   
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Testing Terrateam workflow"
   git push origin test-branch
   ```
   

7. **Create a Pull Request**

>    Go to your forked repository on GitHub. You should see a prompt to create a pull request for your recently pushed branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Access your forked repository on GitHub. A prompt should appear, allowing you to create a pull request for your recently pushed branch.
```

   ![Create a pull request](../../assets/demo-pr.png)
   

>    :::warning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :::caution
```

>    Important: Make sure to change the base repository to your fork instead of creating a PR on the original Terrateam repository. The base should be your `main` branch, and the compare should be your `test-branch`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Make sure to change the base repository to your fork instead of creating a PR on the original Terrateam repository. The base should be your `main` branch, and the compare should be your `test-branch`.
   
      ![Creating a pull request with proper base repository](../../assets/demo-pr-2.png)
```

   :::
   

>    ![Creating a pull request with proper base repository](../../assets/demo-pr-2.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   
   :::caution

>    Ensure that workflows are enabled on your forked repository. If GitHub Actions workflows are disabled, you'll need to enable them in the repository settings.

Reviewer 2: Add a link to a guide on how to enable it.

   :::

8. **Watch the Automatic Terraform Plan**

>    Once the pull request is created, Terrateam will automatically trigger a `terraform plan`. This plan will appear as a comment on your pull request, showing what changes would be made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Once the pull request is created, Terrateam will automatically trigger a [`terraform plan`](/getting-started/plan-and-apply). This plan will appear as a comment on your pull request, showing what changes would be made.
```

   
   ![Automatic Terraform plan in PR comments](../../assets/demo-plan-output.png)
   
   This plan is a preview of what will happen when you apply the changes.

9. **Apply the Changes**

>    To execute the changes, comment `terrateam apply` on the pull request.

Reviewer 2: Can you add a screenshot?

>    Terrateam will run `terraform apply` based on the previously generated plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  After you add the comment, the Terrateam app will run the `terraform apply` command. This will apply the previous plan to the Terraform file, updating your infrastructure.
```

Reviewer 2: @lucaspr2 , check if the statement is correct.

10. **Merge Your Changes**

    Once applied and everything looks good, you can merge the pull request to incorporate the changes into your main branch.
    
</Steps>

> ## Congratulations!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> You've successfully completed your first Terrateam deployment using our demo repository! This demonstrates the core GitOps workflow that Terrateam enables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You've successfully completed your first Terrateam deployment using the demo repository. 
```

> 1. Make infrastructure changes in a branch

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this enumarated list @lucaspr2. Replace it with a Next Steps, and link the How it works and the concepts pages.
